# Setting parameters for custom HTML

For simple branded HTML pages, you can adjust the look and feel of the default output to match your company style by setting parameters to include custom CSS, header branding, or table-of-contents navigation in topics. \(These changes do not require a custom plug-in.\)

-   **[Adding navigation to topics](../topics/html-customization-navigation.md)**  
In HTML5 output, you can set a parameter to include table-of-contents navigation in the `nav` element of each page. The navigation can be rendered in a sidebar or menu via CSS.
-   **[Adding custom CSS](../topics/html-customization-css.md)**  
To modify the appearance of the default HTML output generated by the DITA Open Toolkit, you can reference a custom Cascading Style Sheet \(CSS\) file with the typography and colors that define your corporate identity.
-   **[Adding custom headers and footers](../topics/html-customization-header.md)**  
You add a custom header to include a publication title, company logo, or other common branding elements in HTML output. A custom footer can also be added with copyright information, legal boilerplate, or other fine print.
-   **[Handling content outside the map directory](../parameters/generate-copy-outer.md)**  
By default, DITA-OT assumes content is located in or beneath the directory containing the DITA map file. The generate.copy.outer parameter can be used to adjust how output is generated for content that is located outside the map directory.

**Parent topic:** [Customizing HTML output](../topics/html-customization.md)

**Related information**  


[Customizing HTML with a .properties file](../topics/html-customization-properties-file.md)

[Custom HTML plug-ins](../topics/html-customization-plugins.md)

[XHTML transformation](../topics/dita2xhtml.md)

[Common parameters](../parameters/parameters-base.md)

[HTML-based output parameters](../parameters/parameters-base-html.md)

[XHTML parameters](../parameters/parameters-xhtml.md)

[HTML5 transformation](../topics/dita2html5.md)

[HTML5 parameters](../parameters/parameters-html5.md)

