# Plug-in applications

Plug-ins allow you to extend the functionality of the DITA-OT. This might entail adding support for specialized document types, integrating processing overrides, or defining new output transformations.

-   **[Extending an XML catalog file](../topics/plugin-xmlcatalog.md)**  
You can update either the main DITA-OT XML catalog or the XML catalog that is used by the PDF plug-in. This enables the DITA-OT to support new specializations and document-type shells.
-   **[Adding a new target to the Ant build process](../topics/plugin-anttarget.md)**  
As of DITA-OT 3.0, the `ant.import` extension point can be used to make new targets available to the Ant processing pipeline. This can be done as part of creating a new transformation, extending pre-processing, or simply to make new Ant targets available to other plug-ins.
-   **[Adding an Ant target to the pre-processing pipeline](../topics/plugin-antpreprocess.md)**  
You can add an Ant target to the pre-processing pipeline. This enables you to insert additional processing before or after the pre-processing chain or a specific step in the pre-processing operation.
-   **[Adding a new transformation type](../topics/plugin-newtranstype.md)**  
Plug-ins can add an entirely new transformation type. The new transformation type can be very simple, such as an XHTML build that creates an additional control file; it also can be very complex, adding any number of new processing steps.
-   **[Overriding an XSLT-processing step](../topics/plugin-overridestyle.md)**  
You can override specific XSLT-processing steps in both the pre-processing pipeline and certain DITA-OT transformations.
-   **[Referencing files from other plug-ins](../topics/using-plugin-URI-extension.md)**  
Starting with DITA-OT 1.5.4, you can use the plugin:plugin-id URI extension and the $\{dita.plugin.plugin-id.dir\} Ant variable to reference the base path of another installed DITA-OT plug-in.
-   **[Adding parameters to existing XSLT steps](../topics/plugin-xsltparams.md)**  
You can pass parameters from the Ant build to existing XSLT steps in both the pre-processing pipeline and certain DITA-OT transformations. This can be useful if you want to make the parameters available as global `xsl:param` values within XSLT overrides.
-   **[Adding a Java library to the DITA-OT classpath parameter](../topics/plugin-javalib.md)**  
You can use the `dita.conductor.lib.import` extension point to add an additional Java library to the DITA-OT classpath parameter.
-   **[Adding new diagnostic messages](../topics/plugin-messages.md)**  
Use the `dita.xsl.messages` extension point to add plug-in-specific messages to the diagnostic messages that are generated by the DITA-OT. These messages then can be used by any XSLT override.
-   **[Creating a new plug-in extension point](../topics/plugin-newextensions.md)**  
If your plug-in needs to define its own extension point in an XML file, add the string "`_template`" to the filename before the file suffix. When the plug-in is installed, this file will be processed like the built-in DITA-OT templates.

**Parent topic:** [Customizing DITA-OT with plug-ins](../topics/custom-plugins.md)

